In this demonstration, we'll look at user profiles in Windows 10,
but first though, I want to cover File Explorer in general.
Let's come down to the taskbar and open the File Explorer icon.
If for whatever reason, you or someone else has unpinned this,
it's easy enough to get it back.
Just open the Start menu, type File Explorer,
and then you can right-click, and if it's unpinned from the taskbar,
you'll be able to pin it,
you can also put it on the Start menu and there are some
other common options here as well.
Now what do I think are the most important things to show you here.
Well one thing that's going to hang up some users that you can be a big
help in is if they accidentally close out of a pin or if they have a view
set to something that's uncomfortable for them.
Now let's go to a folder, okay,
here's a folder that's got a whole bunch of subfolders,
it's actually the folder that corresponds to this course.
That's a little meta, isn't it?
But if we go to the View tab and the Ribbon,
notice that you can select various views here,
and just hovering over these views automagically changes the well,
view.
Another thing that you can do actually is hold down Ctrl
and roll your mouse button and that actually jogs through
the different views as well.
Once again, that's holding down Ctrl and jogging your mouse button.
I find in almost all cases I go to Details view because here I
can simply see the columns that I want to see.
By the way, if you right-click a column heading,
you can turn on or turn off columns that you want or don't want.
I brought in Date created, for instance,
and let's say I don't want to see size, I'll right-click and get rid of that.
You can sort these in an ascending or descending way.
I will almost always use date created or date modified in a descending sort
so that I can see my most recent files right up on top.
Okay, so here we have, I'm just browsing to some different locations on the disk,
it doesn't matter specifically what we're looking at.
But also, on the View menu, notice this is where you can customize your pins.
There is a Preview pane, for instance,
that depending upon what kind of asset it is,
it can give you a live preview of what it is.
To maximize the window,
we can either use the Maximize button over here or we can double
left-click the title bar and you can adjust the preview.
This can be useful, for instance, if you're browse through a list of image files,
but this actually allows me to step through a PowerPoint file,
the pptx extension, by the way,
is PowerPoint and that's pretty powerful that Windows 10
actually allows you to browse through that when you have
the Preview pane turned on.
The Details pane allows you to see metadata.
If you're comparing a bunch of files that have a similar name and you
need to figure out at a glance who authored a file,
when it was made, it's useful to see those details.
If you open the Navigation pane, you can turn that on or off.
I always have mine on, but if a user inadvertently turns his or hers off,
you can be a hero by showing them how that control works.
There is some sorting and grouping options,
but like I say,
I tend to go to Details and I'll either do an ascending sort by name to put
all of the assets in alphabetical order or I'll do a Date modified or Date
created search in a reverse chronological order way.
Some of these buttons are pretty useful like Size all
columns to fit is kind of cool, hidden items,
Show/hide extensions, show/hide hidden items.
I mentioned this earlier, the only reason I'm seeing.
ini,. pptx,. zip is because I'm showing those extensions.
Windows has always historically hidden extensions by default so I
think Microsoft doesn't want users to get confused.
I train all of my end users to get accustomed to extensions because they're
very helpful for figuring out exactly what a file is.
Now as far as hidden items,
I'll generally leave that alone when I'm dealing with an end user,
but if I'm doing technical work, I need to see those hidden items.
If you want to change this globally,
we can open up the Options menu and go to Change Folder and Search options.
There is a lot in here, but specifically,
the good stuff that I'm thinking of is in the view where you can,
for instance, display the full path and the title bar,
which will give you the full folder path,
instead of just the name of the current folder.
Always show menus, well I don't necessarily want that.
Display file icon on thumbnails,
I don't want that because I like thumbnails for images especially.
Who set these preferences, right?
Hidden files and folders, show them or don't show them,
very important preference there.
Hide extensions for known file types, again, critically important option.
And then just as important, hide protected operating system files.
For end users, it's important to keep those sensitive files hidden,
but for your IT work, it's just the opposite.
Now what you can do is set up a folder the way you want them
all to be and then click Apply to folders.
That can be a really useful way to do business.
Now you can double left-click the heading of the
ribbon to expand or contract it.
Sometimes contracting is useful because it gives you more screen real estate.
Now you notice the quick access here has these little push pins.
The idea is if you find a folder that you want to have access to a lot,
you can either drag and drop it,
as long as you look for the horizontal bar and let go,
that'll pin it, or you can right-click and choose pin to quick access,
you see what I mean, and then you can drag and drop these to reorder.
And the Quick Access always shows up first in your list.
If you want to get rid of something that you've added,
you can right-click, I'm actually going to do that for my Visual Studio folder,
I'll right-click and choose Unpin from Quick access.
If you're not sure how many disks and volumes are on a system,
you can go to the This PC node.
This gives you a run of common folders, but more importantly, fixed drives.
I have two drives, C and D, and a virtual DVD drive,
and then any network shared folders that you're connected to and any
removable drives like an external USB drive or a thumb drive, so this PC is a very useful place to go on the file system.